---
title: "Beanku"
created: 2026-03-31T09:30:28-05:00
date: 2026-03-31T09:30:28-05:00
draft: true
slug: beanku
description:
tags: []
---

A while ago I wrote a series of Twitter posts (remember tweets?) declaring my love of beans in the form of haiku.

I decided to re-post them here, because they ring as true now as they did back then.

---

On a plate of beans,  
You may just find a window  
To eternal bliss

---

I pray that one day  
I get a fortune cookie  
That has beans inside.

---

Beans are eternal.  
That means they last forever.  
Yeah, no fucking duh.

---

Loneliness is a  
Struggle for anyone. But,  
Beans will make you whole.

---

I do not look down  
On beans from a can, for they  
Are still delicious.

---

Frijoles para  
Vida y felizidad,  
Para siempre.

---

Some people go to  
A church to worship their god.  
I go to praise beans.

---

Refried beans are great.  
Seriously, what the fuck,  
How are they this good?

---

Follow contentment:  
All paths to joy lead through beans.  
The first step is yours.

---

I do not need a  
Man after midnight; Gimme  
Gimme gimme... beans!

---

Money cannot buy  
Happiness, but it can buy  
The next best thing: beans.

---

Others wait, beans act.  
Others hesitate, beans lead.  
Others fall, beans rise.

---

Pictures of dogs are  
Adorable, but my heart  
Wants pictures of beans

---

My favorite music?  
Simple. A can opener,  
Opening bean cans

---

There is no ailment  
For which doctors have found a  
Better cure than beans

---

Eyes are the window  
To the soul. Beans are windows  
To the universe

---

Cuando comes los  
Frijoles, entonces ves  
La luz, la verdad

---

The beans on my lips  
Are like an evanescent  
Kiss from a lover

---

Until you know beans,  
You cannot know truth. Through beans,  
You will be made pure.

---

Beans beans beans beans beans,  
Beans beans beans beans beans beans beans,  
Beans beans beans beans beans
